[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We are intuitively
wired to help each other,
to sense each other's
vulnerability and to respond
to that.
So an invisible act of power
is what our intuitive system
is designed to respond to.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When I was growing
up Roman Catholic,
I learned to be
spiritually bilingual.
And by that, I mean I spoke
English and angels and miracles
simultaneously, which wasn't
unusual for Catholics my age.
Except in that
generation, it was normal.
And I learned that miracles
could happen every day.
And in fact, they do.
And for several of us
children, angels and saints
were actually our first
encounter with invisible power.
We prayed to them
and they answered us.
I mean, they really answered us.
Not like showing up
at our door, but we
expected them to answer
us, and we grew up
knowing we were never alone.
You know, there was so
much comfort in that.
I mean, the way
angels and saints
were presented to us were
as these holy guardians
of the world we lived in.
It was as if they were
these guardians of us
for safe keeping.
And I learned that faith
is an active force, not
a passive one.
It was an invisible
power, like love.
It's not simply a
belief in goodness,
it's a belief that needed
to be put into action
in the present moment.
In fact, it's been my experience
that more people today
have faith in what
they don't believe in.
They can tell me
with great conviction
what they don't believe in
than what they do believe in.
But faith is that
incredible capacity
to have a sense that there's
something much greater than you
that governs this
great universe.
And all timeless faiths share
this same expression of faith.
When I was in India, someone
said to me, it's so nice of you
to come visit here.
We have so many gods,
and you just have one.
So help yourself.
When I was in Bali,
I noticed that people
had their altars of
devotion at their homes
that they honored every morning.
Tibet has the prayer flags.
It's a nation covered with God.
God is everywhere.
And the invisible world
just isn't around us,
it's within us.
We are intuitively wired
to sense each other.
But in particular,
in particular,
we are wired to sense the
fragility and the vulnerability
of our fellow human
beings, just as we're
wired to sense intuitively
our own energy field.
Odd as it may seem, I believe
that this acute inner sense
of how we can sense each
other's vulnerability also
explains why we can be
so cruel and uncaring.
So I need to explain
that, because that
could hit some people like
a brick between the eyes.
I noticed this a lot, but then
one day, it made sense to me.
I have a particular
devotion to homeless people.
By that I mean that's
my particular charity.
So I pay attention to people
who walk past homeless people
in an uncaring way.
How much is a quarter?
How much is a dime?
How much is a nickel?
Do you know how difficult
it is to sit on the ground
and look up at another
person and ask for money?
Go ahead and try it.
Put yourself on a
sidewalk and look up
at a human being walking
past you and ask for a dime.
You want to be humbled?
That will do it.
So what I realized this one day
as I was sitting there watching
and counting how many
people walked by,
and not just walked
by, but avoided.
And what I knew was, in order
to avoid, they had to feel.
They felt the pain
in that person.
They actually felt
the vulnerability
in that human being.
So it was a choice.
It was a choice.
I knew it.
And the hostility of saying,
I bet, I bet that person
has more money than me or
has a lot of money at home,
and why don't they get
a job, and that kind
of vulgar hostility toward
these vulnerable people
was a response not
to those people,
but to their intuitive capacity
to sense the vulnerability
in those people that they
had to numb themselves,
because their intuition,
their intuitive wiring
could sense the vulnerability,
and they were feeling compelled
to reach out, and
they didn't want
to open that faucet any bigger
than it was already open.
They wanted to close it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You know, when they
say in the Army
that they train people to
see the enemy as animals
because they can't afford to
have that sensitivity open up
or they couldn't be soldiers.
They couldn't be soldiers.
They can't see them
as human beings.
So you have to create
in their way a way
to turn down that
humanity, because we
are wired to see the
humanity in each other.
The goal of consciousness
is to open ourselves up
to each other, not
just to ourselves.
The myth of intuition
is that people
think it's like
this divination tool
where you're going
to see the future.
You're going to save you from
losing money and charting
a course in life where you'll
never make any mistakes.
Are you nuts?
Are you kidding me?
No.
You intuitive skill,
your intuitive skill
is about you awakening to
the senses of your soul.
Your soul.
And this may come as a shock,
but your soul is not about you.
Your soul is the
navigating force for you
to chart your way through
a universe much bigger
than yourself.
And one of the laws
that you learned
is that all life
breathes together.
And the goal of
consciousness is to become
conscious of your
place in this universe
and how you live with
others and your capacity
to sense others as
much as yourself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what is grace?
Isn't that a great question?
What is grace?
You have no idea how many
times people have said,
what it is grace?
Is it kind of like a magic
substance like magic sparkle
stuff?
Does it make things better?
Does it like, sweep in
and solve my problems?
Can I have a dose of grace?
No.
Here's a great example of grace.
Every one of you has
been in a situation
where you're in
a heated argument
with someone, big, huge.
You want to win.
You want to win bad.
And so you have
that one remark up
your sleeve that's like
the bad ace up your sleeve.
You could say this,
and you know it's
going to hurt that person so bad
it could be the deal breaker.
You could bring up maybe
a past thing they did.
Remember when you cheated on me?
Remember when you-- or
something really horrible,
the thing that you know
would crush the person.
And then you hear that voice.
And that voice says, are you
sure you want to say that?
I mean, are you sure
you want to do that?
Because if you do, you
know what, it's bad.
And I'm not sure you
can piece this together.
All of a sudden,
that voice kicks in.
And instead of you pulling that
awful ace out of your sleeve,
instead, you decide,
oh, the hell with this,
and you walk out.
You just storm out of there,
only to say to yourself later,
thank God I did that.
What made me walk out?
You may not say to
yourself that was grace,
because maybe that word's not
part of your inner parlance.
But it should be, and it's going
to be after you watch this.
Because spending
time with me is what
learning this is all
about, sacred power
and how powerful the sacred
is, and that acts of grace
happen all the time.
One of the ways
grace works is it
saves us from our worst
instincts, our worst instincts.
And another way it works is
that it gives us opportunities
to act on behalf of
others, to be there,
to be the tools of the
invisible world in the visible,
to be the hands of
heaven on Earth.
Think about that, to be the
hands of heaven on Earth.
When I was in school,
the nuns used to say,
sometimes angels walk in
disguise on the Earth.
And I think sometimes,
they would say that to us
so that we would
behave ourselves
when they weren't around.
But you know what?
Angels walk the
Earth in disguise.
They absolutely do.
I have a lot of proof for
things I cannot prove.
That in fact, the
invisible world
is visible in so many ways
if you know how to see it,
if you know how to look, if
you know how to break the code.
You have to be willing to
surrender to divine guidance.
There is a reason why all
the religions of the world
teach surrender.
In the Alcoholics
Anonymous program,
surrender really was
introduced, and in a big way.
So it got a
reputation of meaning,
oh my god, I give up because
everything has failed,
everything around me.
Look what I've done.
I've blown everything.
And so that's like one way
to understand surrender.
And it's very valid.
It's very valid.
Because sometimes, you blow
it, because you just do.
Our ordinary
understanding of surrender
is that we have bottomed out
or failed in every possible way
in our lives.
And we avoid that
moment of surrender
because it is an admission
that we've run out
of options to help ourselves.
But then there's
mystical surrender.
And this is what I wanted to
address here, sacred surrender.
So pay attention because
this is a big huge jewel
I'm giving you.
Sacred surrender
is when you get--
when you get deep in your
soul-- wait a minute.
I have to pull myself
together, because this is big.
All right, hold it.
Sacred surrender is when you
get how powerful you are.
Not how unpowerful, but
how powerful you are.
What an incredibly powerful
instrument you really
are that every
thought you have is,
in fact, a tool of creation,
that every prayer you say
is, in fact, heard.
If you can get
over your own fear
that what I'm
telling you is true,
and that's a big sentence
I just leveled at you, then
what you have to contend
with is that maybe what
I'm telling you is the
truth, that maybe you
are that powerful, which means
that the rules of your life
have to change.
They have to change.
And if you get
that you really are
a powerful instrument
of the sacred,
that means everybody
else is too.
Because it's not about you.
It means every human
being is the same way.
And I have to tell you--
I'm going to tell you something.
That didn't strike me as
good news when I realized it.
Because let's face it, this
is what spirituality is about.
You have to up the bar and
decide I have to work at this.
But then you have
to realize what does
this mean for helping others?
What does it mean
for the guidance
that I hear that I
have to surrender to?
What does it mean for that?
It means that when
you're told something,
and you're given
a gut instruction,
you don't pause
and say, you know
what, I'm afraid that
doesn't make any sense to me.
It doesn't make sense and I'm
not going to do it, so there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It means this is how the
mystical world works.
And this is how heaven works.
What you're told is never
going to make sense to you,
and that's the way heaven works.
All mystical instruction
is going to baffle you.
If fact, if I wrote a
book on how heaven talks,
it would begin with, it will
never make sense to you.
Because it always relies
upon you surrendering to--
I have no idea how
this is going to work,
I'm just going to do it.
Because if left to you,
you would mess it up
with your ego projection, your
expectation, and your need
to get the attention.
Which is why when heaven
is giving you instructions,
you'll never know what step two
is until you get to step two
so that you don't mess it up.
Now, the journey to
empowerment, oftentimes we
think of this spiritual journey
only in terms of ourself.
My spiritual journey,
my spiritual journey.
But I have to tell you that this
spiritual journey is about how
we become something
greater than ourselves
on behalf of everybody
else, on behalf
of making the human journey
a much better place,
on behalf of sensing
how we can serve
the whole with all that
we are and all that we
have to give to the whole.
The spiritual path is not about
what we can take from life,
but how we become an
instrument of transforming
the whole of life on
behalf of everyone else.
The spiritual
journey inside of you
is going to make you more
attuned to the world around you
because your intuitive,
your inner senses
are going to awaken.
But they don't
awaken so that you
can figure out how not to fail.
They awaken so
that you can begin
the journey of self-discovery
about yourself,
your inner nature,
who you really are,
what really drives you,
so that you can truly
respond to the needs of
others and to your own deeper
potential as a soul.
So I want to discuss invisible
facts about invisible power,
and specifically, sacred power.
You may not think about sacred
power or power as sacred,
but actually, this
is a big jewel
to put into your jewel pouch.
Sacred power is what we aspire
to on the spiritual journey,
the acquisition and
the development,
the inner development of
sacred inner authority.
And sacred power, what
do I mean by that?
Think about healing.
What does it take to heal?
If you just put your
hands on someone,
nothing's going to
happen as a rule.
Maybe they'll feel a little bit.
Maybe they'll
relax a little bit.
But the chances that an
illness is really going to heal
is not likely.
It's not likely.
But could a person actually
heal from someone touching them?
And the answer there is yes.
Yes.
I have witnessed that.
As we blend our inner path with
prayer and faith and trust,
the quality of power
that comes through us
becomes more refined.
Because what happens
is that we become
capable of generating
and becoming
a source of creating experiences
that we no longer doubt.
Now, what is a miracle?
Obviously, a
miracle is something
that happens as a
result of sacred power.
We call something a
miracle because it's
like a healing that
happens instantly.
It's something that
happens without time.
It happens out of the
flow of ordinary time.
Now, I wondered for
years, why doesn't healing
happen at that speed?
And while I could actually talk
about this for a long time,
because it's fascinating,
I'll cut to the chase.
Healing at the speed
of sacred power
would happen to
a lot more people
except that they
could not withstand
the consequence of something
happening at that speed
to them.
Isn't that amazing?
But it's true.
They could not handle the
speed of sacred power.
The force of it requires that we
develop faith in the existence
and cooperation and partnership
with the invisible world,
the capacity to partner with
the invisible world happens.
Sacred power inspires you
to empower others, not
disempower them.
The more you give, the
more is given to you.
You no longer have this fear
that if you empower others,
what will be left for you?
In fact, more power
pours into you.
Sacred power is an active
agent of transformation.
You're not driven by greed,
but rather this understanding
that a rising tide
lifts all ships,
and that the more you help the
tide and others lift, the more
everyone, all humanity
benefits, because what is in one
is in the whole.
We are meant to treat each other
the same way heaven interacts
with us.
I just have to
share some stories,
because that is the way it is.
This is one of my favorite.
This is from "Invisible
Acts of Power."
So this man decides one night
to drive his motorcycle late
at night.
And it's wintertime, and he
thinks, what a stupid thing
to do, but I can't help it.
I want to do it.
And he's driving on this road
and he gets into black ice,
and the motorcycle slides
out because he hits a deer.
He said he saw the ice coming
right out of the woods.
He couldn't stop his
motorcycle, it was on ice,
and he hits the deer.
He goes flying off
the motorcycle,
breaks both his legs,
and the deer's dead.
And he's lying there on this
road in the country just
as the road bends, and he
thinks he's going to die,
because a car's going
to come around the bend
and he won't be able to
stop because the ice,
and he's going to
now get smashed.
He's imagining that that's
going to be his end,
so he starts praying.
And he hears footsteps
on this frozen snow,
but he can't see
anything because there's
blood in his eyes.
And a woman grabs his head
and puts his head in her lap
and says, don't worry.
There's an ambulance on its way.
He assumes she
called the ambulance.
And pretty soon, this
ambulance shows up.
And they said they happened
to be just driving.
No, nobody called.
And no, there aren't
any footsteps.
And no, there isn't any woman.
And he knew that
that was his angel.
And of course, that
changed his whole life.
And that is one of so
many, many endless stories.
A man said to me, I was
going to kill myself.
I was going home.
I'm standing on
the street corner.
I'm deciding, do I slit my
wrist or do I OD on pills?
I don't have enough pills, maybe
I should slit my wrists first.
And he's debating.
He's having this debate.
And he's standing there,
and a car rolls up,
and he looks at the
woman who's driving
and he just motions for
her, go, go, you go.
And she looks at him,
and instead, she's
flashes this smile at
him, and in that smile,
he decides to live because
of the way she smiled.
An invisible act as
subtle as a smile.
Or was she an angel
who just showed up
in the car in a second enough
to say, no, no, no, no, live.
Live.
That is God in the streets.
That's angels in the street.
That's how important every life
is, even in our darkest moment.
Even in our darkest moment.
These invisible acts of power
happen everywhere all the time.
And here's what you
need to understand.
We are wired to respond to each
other in the same delicate way
that heaven responds to us.
It is one huge,
breathing apparatus.
We breathe together
with heaven all the time
and every prayer is heard.
Every single prayer and
every action is known.
And while I cannot prove that,
there is not one part of me
that doubts it.
And if your world feels better
with doubt, you go right ahead.
But I have to tell
you something,
try believing it for a week.
And when something
wonderful happens,
don't tell yourself
it's a coincidence.
Use the right language.
Tell yourself, it's grace.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]